Contents
--------------------------
This is a module for using SNLS3 data with Cosmomc.
It is possible that a more up-to-date version may be
available at:
http://casa.colorado.edu/~aaconley/Software.html

Installing the SNLS module
--------------------------
The SNLS add-on to COSMOMC was developed against
the May 2010 update (sadly, cosmomc doesn't
use real version numbers).

If you are using this version, things are easy.
There's a patch file you can use.  Simply
go into the source directory of your cosmomc
distribution (making a copy first=always a good idea).
Then 
  patch -p1 -i add_snls.patch
This won't quite do everything.  You also need to copy
the contents of the data subdirectory into the data subdirectory
of cosmomc.  And, if you've made other changes to cosmomc,
you would be crazy not to back it up first.

But by the time you read this, COSMOMC may have changed
enough so that the patch doesn't work. What then?
In this case some written instructions are provided for what
needs to be changed -- see the CHANGES file.

I've also provided a modified version of getdist (getdistidl)
that does most of what SNLS does but produces files IDL can run.
You need to modify the Makefile to generate that, but it should
be straightforward.

How To Use SNLS data
---------------------
The parameters of the SN file are controlled through
a .dataset file in data -- so snls_3rdyear.dataset.
That controls which datafile to use, the covariance
matrices, \sigma_int, etc.

You then have to modify your parameter file (param.ini) to point
to the datafile and use SNLS -- something like:

snls_dataset = data/snls_3rdyear.dataset
use_SNLS = T

You will also need to fit two additional SN nuisance parameters,
alpha and beta.  These in principle depend on the light-curve
fitting tool you used to analyze the data.  For the SNLS3
data, a good starting guess is:

param[alpha] = 1.442 0.6 2.6 0.11 0.11
param[beta] = 3.262 0.9 4.6 0.11 0.11

Covariance matrices
-------------------
The stat+sys covariance matrices are in the same format
as used for the other code; in other words, you can find
other covariance matrices (for example, for stat only)
in the covariances top level directory.

Questions
---------
Q: Can't I just use the default SN module with your
 datafile?
A: Yes, if you are willing to accept not having the
  right answer.  In other words, no.
  See the discussion in Conley et al. 2011 sections
  4.6 and appendix C.

Q: Couldn't you properly marginalize over alpha and beta
  internally so I don't have to fit them?
A: Yes.  Unfortunately, doing so turns out to be slower
  than fitting them.  If one had a machine with sufficient
  memory to pre-invert the covariance matrix for a decent
  grid of alpha/beta (say, 60 x 60) and hold that in ram,
  this would be the way to go.  Right now this requires 
  about 5.5 GB for SNLS3.  Since people
  are often running multiple copies per machine due to multiple
  cores, this seemed too severe a requirement to impose,
  but that will presumably change in the future.  Reinverting
  on the fly (so as not to hold stuff in memory) right now slows
  down cosmomc by about a factor of 10 or so, whereas explicitly
  fitting for alpha and beta slows it down by a few 10s of percent.
  If at some point in the future new data sets (Planck?) are added
  that slow down the CMB likelihood evaluation by factors of 10,
  this may be worth revisiting.

Q: What about eigenmode compression or something, as was done for
   WMAP?
A: Good idea, but it doesn't seem to work so well for this covariance matrix
   considering the range of alpha/beta that need to be covered to get
   the marginalization right.

Change Log:

Last Modified: Apr 10, 2010 by Alex Conley

Apr 10, 2011: Modified some non-standard F90 usage that some compilers
  don't appreciate.  Caught by Zhiqi Huang
